Doc 472/custom pack registry updates (#1217)
spectrocloud/librarium: content/docs/09-registries-and-packs/7-advanced-configuration.md

---

> title: 'Advanced Registry configuration'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: 'Advanced Configuration'
```
A bit shorter and to the point. We are already in the context of registries, so it might be a bit redundant.

> metaTitle: 'Advanced Registry configuration'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
metaTitle: 'Advanced Configuration'
```

> metaDescription: 'Customizing deployments of Spectro Registry'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
metaDescription: 'Learn how to apply advanced concepts by customizing the deployments of the Packs registry.'
```

icon: ''
hideToC: true
fullWidth: false
---

import Tabs from 'shared/components/ui/Tabs';
import WarningBox from 'shared/components/WarningBox';
import InfoBox from 'shared/components/InfoBox';
import PointsOfInterest from 'shared/components/common/PointOfInterest';
import Tooltip from "shared/components/ui/Tooltip";

> # Advanced Configuration of Spectro Registry

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Advanced Configuration
```

> You can modify a few deployment options of the Spectro Registy.
> Configuration is done by a YAML file, however you can override 
> many options using environment variables.
> 
> The YAML file is divided into keys and values, which can have
> embedded keys and values, such as:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can modify a few deployment options of the pack registry.
The configuration is applied through a YAML file. However, you can override 
many options using environment variables.

The configuration file is divided into keys and values. The following is an example YAML configuration.
```

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```yaml
```

version: 0.1
log:
  level: info
  fields:
    environment: test
```

> The key `version` has number value. The `log` key has value with multiple keys (`level`,
> `fields`), which in turn have more keys.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The key `version` has a number value. The `log` key has a value with multiple keys, which in turn have more keys.
```

To override the value of `log.level` you can specify an environment variable named

> `REGISTRY_LOG_LEVEL`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`REGISTRY_LOG_LEVEL`.

```shell
export REGISTRY_LOG_LEVEL=debug
```

```

Might be good to provide an example.

> ## The default configuration

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Default Configuration
```

> The docker image for the registy contains the following configuration:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The docker image for the registry contains the following default configuration values.

<br />
```

```yaml
version: 0.1
log:
  fields:
    service: registry
storage:
  cache:
    blobdescriptor: inmemory
  filesystem:
    rootdirectory: /data/.spectro-server
http:
  addr: :5000
  headers:
    X-Content-Type-Options: [ nosniff ]
    Strict-Transport-Security: [ max-age=63072000; includeSubdomains; preload ]
    Content-Security-Policy: [ img-src 'self'; script-src 'self';  style-src 'self ]
    X-Frame-Options: [ DENY ]
    X-XSS-Protection: [ 1; mode=block ]
    Referrer-Policy: [ same-origin ]
auth:
  htpasswd:
    realm: basic-realm
    path: /auth/htpasswd-basic
```

The server is started with the command `registy serve /etc/spectro/config.yml`.

> You can override this configuration by overriding specific values via environment
> variables or you can pass your own configuration file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can override the default values with specific values through environment
variables, or you can use your own configuration file.
```

> For example you can run the docker container image with the following environment
> variables to override the basic auth realm and logging level:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, you can start the docker container image with the following environment
variables to override the basic auth realm and logging level:
```

```bash
docker run -d \
    -p 443:5000 \
    ...
    -e REGISTRY_LOG_LEVEL=debug \
    -e REGISTRY_AUTH=htpasswd \
    -e REGISTRY_AUTH_HTPASSWD_REALM="My Enterprise Realm" \
    ...
    gcr.io/spectro-images-public/release/spectro-registry:3.2.0
```

> Alternatively, you can run the image mounting a directory with a new configuration
> file and pointing the server command to it:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Alternatively, you can start the container by mounting a directory with a new configuration file and pointing the server command to the configuration file.
```

```
docker run -d \
    -p 443:5000 \
    ...
    -v $(pwd)/myconfig.yml:/etc/myconfig.yml
    ...

>     gcr.io/spectro-images-public/release/spectro-registry:3.2.0

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    gcr.io/spectro-images-public/release/spectro-registry:3.3.0
```
Should this be 3.3.0?

    /registry serve /etc/myconfig.yml
```
## Storage Backend

> The pax registry can store data on a file system through a mounted
> volume or it can use S3 storage (AWS or similar).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The pack registry can store data on a file system through a mounted
volume, or you can specify object storage such as AWS S3.
```

> The following shows a file system backend:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following is an example of a configuration using a file system backend.
```

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```yaml
```

storage:
  cache:
    blobdescriptor: inmemory
  filesystem:
    rootdirectory: /tmp/registry//data/.spectro-server
```

> S3 Storage needs to know how to connect to S3:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you are using S3 Storage, ensure you specify the required S3 parameters.
```

```
storage:
  cache:
    blobdescriptor: inmemory
  s3:
    region: us-east-1
    bucket: my-bucket
    rootdirectory: /registry
    encrypt: true|false
    secure: false|true
    accesskey: SAMPLEACCESSKEY
    secretkey: SUPERSECRET
    host: OPTIONAL_MINIO_HOST_IF_USING
    port: OPTIONAL_MINIO_PORT_IF_USING
```

> Ephemeral storage for testing purposes is also available:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can also use ephemeral storage. We recommend using ephemeral storage for testing purposes. Production environments should use object storage or a file system.
```

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```yaml
```

storage: inmemory
```

## Authentication

> Basic HTTP Auth is supported:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can configure basic HTTP Auth. Basic Auth requires providing the pack registry server with an httppasswd file containing the credentials.
```

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```yaml
```

auth:
  htpasswd:
    realm: basic-realm
    path: /auth/htpasswd-basic
```

> ## HTTP

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Network
```
I wonder if network is a better topic name.

Author: I tried keeping the sections with the same name as in the YAML configuration file.

Author: We can change to Network but, that title covers address and binding to ports too. Hence, I feel HTTP is more accurate.

Reviewer: I follow now. In that case, let's keep it as is.

The following options are available for modifying HTTP transport:

### Server and Port

For serving content on all interfaces on port 5000:

```
http:
    addr: :5000
```

> Alternatively one can bind to a single IP and different port:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Alternatively, you can bind to a single IP and different port:
```
Adress the user :)

```
http:
    addr: 192.168.122.77:25000
```
### HTTP Headers

> The following headers are the default, and can be overriden:

Author: yes.

```
http:
  headers:
    X-Content-Type-Options: [ nosniff ]
    Strict-Transport-Security: [ max-age=63072000; includeSubdomains; preload ]
    Content-Security-Policy: [ img-src 'self'; script-src 'self';  style-src 'self ]
    X-Frame-Options: [ DENY ]
    X-XSS-Protection: [ 1; mode=block ]

>     Referrer-Policy: [ same-origin ]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Referrer-Policy: [ same-origin ]
```
```

Missing closing ticks

### TLS

TLS can be configured using [letsencrypt](https://letsencrypt.org) or custom TLS certificates:

For letsencrypt, your registry has to have a public IP address accessible for HTTP based

> validation by letsencrypt services.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
validation by the letsencrypt services.
```

```
http:

>   addr: :5000

Author: yes.

>   tls:

Author: yes.

>     letsencrypt:

Author: yes.

      cachefile: le-cache
      email: oz@spectrocloud.com
      hosts:

>       - pax-registry.spectrocloud.com

Author: yes.

```

Note, letsencrypt limits the amount of free certificates issued per domain per amount of time.
It is therefore, recommended to mount a volume where the certificates are permanently stored.
This option is `cachefile` which is actually a directory, despite the name.

Custom certificates can be specified with:

```
http:

>   tls:

Author: yes.

    certificate: /path/to/x509/certificate/file
    key: /pat/to/x509/key/file/which contains/private key/for x509 certificate above
    clientcas: /path/to/file/with one or more/CA certificates encoded as PEM

>     minimumtls: minimum tls version to use

Author: yes.

>     minimumtls: minimum tls version to use

Author: yes.
